Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data Project Code Book
===========

## Raw data ("UCI HAR Dataset")

The raw data provided for the project were extracted from experiments that have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING UPSTAIRS, WALKING DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.

The dataset included the following files "features_info.txt" which shows information about the variables used on the feature vector, "features.txt" which is a list of all features, "activity_labels.txt" which links the class labels with their activity name, "train/X_train.txt" the training set, "train/y_train.txt" the training labels, "test/X_test.txt" the test set, "test/y_test.txt" the test labels.

Each feature vector is a row on the text file and each feature is normalized and bounded within [-1,1]. The raw data provided consisted in 10299 observations of 561 variables.

## Cleaned data ("clean.data")

The data set obtained after merging, cleaning and labelling the raw data consists in a data frame named "clean.data" with 10299 observations of 69 variables.

Description of the variables.
* "Subject" : Factor variable (30 levels : 1..30) which lists the id of the subject.
* "Activity_Id" : Factor variable (6 levels : 1..6) which lists the id of the activity.
* "Activity" : Factor variable (6 levels : WALKING, WALKING UPSTAIRS, WALKING DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) which lists the nature of the activity.
* "tBodyAcc-mean()-X", "tBodyAcc-mean()-Y", "tBodyAcc-mean()-Z", "tBodyAcc-std()-X", "tBodyAcc-std()-Y", "tBodyAcc-std()-Z", "tGravityAcc-mean()-X", "tGravityAcc-mean()-Y", "tGravityAcc-mean()-Z", "tGravityAcc-std()-X", "tGravityAcc-std()-Y", "tGravityAcc-std()-Z", "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X", "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y", "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z", "tBodyAccJerk-std()-X", "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y", "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z", "tBodyGyro-mean()-X", "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y", "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z", "tBodyGyro-std()-X", "tBodyGyro-std()-Y", "tBodyGyro-std()-Z", "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X", "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y", "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z", "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X", "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y", "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z", "tBodyAccMag-mean()", "tBodyAccMag-std()", "tGravityAccMag-mean()", "tGravityAccMag-std()", "tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()", "tBodyAccJerkMag-std()", "tBodyGyroMag-mean()", "tBodyGyroMag-std()", "tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()", "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()", "fBodyAcc-mean()-X", "fBodyAcc-mean()-Y", "fBodyAcc-mean()-Z", "fBodyAcc-std()-X", "fBodyAcc-std()-Y", "fBodyAcc-std()-Z", "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X", "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y", "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z", "fBodyAccJerk-std()-X", "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y", "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z", "fBodyGyro-mean()-X", "fBodyGyro-mean()-Y", "fBodyGyro-mean()-Z", "fBodyGyro-std()-X", "fBodyGyro-std()-Y", "fBodyGyro-std()-Z", "fBodyAccMag-mean()", "fBodyAccMag-std()", "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()", "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()", "fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()", "fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()", "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()", "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()" : Numeric variables (normalized in [-1,1]) which lists the mean and standard deviation variables extracted from the 561 variables of the raw data. The variables selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These variables begin with a "t" as they represent time domain signals. The acceleration signal is separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ). The body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). The magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag).  The variables beginning with a "f" represent frequency domain signals (obtained after a FFT). 

## Tidy data ("tidy.data")

The data set obtained after averaging each of the 69 variables from the cleaned data set for each activity and each subject consists in a data frame named "tidy.data" with 180 observations (30 subjects x 6 activities) of 68 variables.

Description of the variables.
* "Subject" : Factor variable (30 levels : 1..30) which lists the id of the subject.
* "Activity" : Factor variable (6 levels : WALKING, WALKING UPSTAIRS, WALKING DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) which lists the nature of the activity.
* "tBodyAcc-mean-X", "tBodyAcc-mean-Y", "tBodyAcc-mean-Z", "tBodyAcc-std-X", "tBodyAcc-std-Y", "tBodyAcc-std-Z", "tGravityAcc-mean-X", "tGravityAcc-mean-Y", "tGravityAcc-mean-Z", "tGravityAcc-std-X", "tGravityAcc-std-Y", "tGravityAcc-std-Z", "tBodyAccJerk-mean-X", "tBodyAccJerk-mean-Y", "tBodyAccJerk-mean-Z", "tBodyAccJerk-std-X", "tBodyAccJerk-std-Y", "tBodyAccJerk-std-Z", "tBodyGyro-mean-X", "tBodyGyro-mean-Y", "tBodyGyro-mean-Z", "tBodyGyro-std-X", "tBodyGyro-std-Y", "tBodyGyro-std-Z", "tBodyGyroJerk-mean-X", "tBodyGyroJerk-mean-Y", "tBodyGyroJerk-mean-Z", "tBodyGyroJerk-std-X", "tBodyGyroJerk-std-Y", "tBodyGyroJerk-std-Z", "tBodyAccMag-mean", "tBodyAccMag-std", "tGravityAccMag-mean", "tGravityAccMag-std", "tBodyAccJerkMag-mean", "tBodyAccJerkMag-std", "tBodyGyroMag-mean", "tBodyGyroMag-std", "tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean", "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std", "fBodyAcc-mean-X", "fBodyAcc-mean-Y", "fBodyAcc-mean-Z", "fBodyAcc-std-X", "fBodyAcc-std-Y", "fBodyAcc-std-Z", "fBodyAccJerk-mean-X", "fBodyAccJerk-mean-Y", "fBodyAccJerk-mean-Z", "fBodyAccJerk-std-X", "fBodyAccJerk-std-Y", "fBodyAccJerk-std-Z", "fBodyGyro-mean-X", "fBodyGyro-mean-Y", "fBodyGyro-mean-Z", "fBodyGyro-std-X", "fBodyGyro-std-Y", "fBodyGyro-std-Z", "fBodyAccMag-mean", "fBodyAccMag-std", "fBodyAccJerkMag-mean", "fBodyAccJerkMag-std", "fBodyGyroMag-mean", "fBodyGyroMag-std", "fBodyGyroJerkMag-mean", "fBodyGyroJerkMag-std" : Numeric variables (normalized in [-1,1]) which lists the average of the mean and standard deviation variables extracted from the 561 variables of the raw data for each activity and each subject (see "Cleaned data" section for more explanations concerning these variables).


